>> Civic Engagement and Technology Resume for Dan Ancona

Daniel F. Ancona, IV
3830 19th St. Apt. E
San Francisco, CA 94114

415.373.8972 cell

da {at} simplerevolutions {dot} com

>> Synopsis

Software engineer and technologist with vision and experience
executing. Excellent communication skills coupled with diverse
research, development, political and entrepreneurial experience
and a deep passion for civic engagement.


>> Summary of Technical Skills

. Broad software applications development and expertise.
. Product development and application of lean startup techniques.
. GIS mapping and programming via ESRI ArcObjects.
. Web application experience in django and jquery.
. Research focus of visualization design and implementation.
. Platform experience across unix, windows & scripting environments.
. Cloud deployment and devops including Amazon Web Services (AWS).
. Graphics and visualization programming in OpenGL, Direct3D, etc.
. Programming in python, vb/vb.net, c/c++, c#, java and perl.
. Some layout and graphic design, in print and online.
. Experience in technical sales and product management


>> Experience Highlights

Technical Contracting (February 2010 to Present)
    San Francisco, California
    . Consulting for clients on application development and political organizing
    . Clients included Citizen Engagement Lab and The Agenda Project

Simple Revolutions: Founder and Lead Developer (February 2008 to October 2012)
    San Francisco, California
    http://demdash.us/
    . designed and implemented first version of new django-based
      organizing platform, Democracy Dashboard
    . project accepted into the Hub Ventures social venture accelerator
    . coordinated all other early-stage startup activities, from UX testing
      to cloud (AWS) deployment

California VoterConnect: Project Director (July 2006 to May 2011)
    San Francisco, California
    . wrote successful funding proposal
    . designed and executed vendor evaluation process
    . ran support, training and outreach activities
    . wrote c# voter matching & data validation tools
    . responsible for ongoing strategic direction
    . delivered data to 120+ active campaigns and orgs in 2008

Planet 9 Studios: Software Engineer (May 2004 to July 2006)
    San Francisco, California
    . refined windows SDK based c++/vrml UAV control client app
    . added features to and maintained various c++ applications
    . created demos, including a spatial hypertext 3D RSS reader
    . managed customer interactions and expectations
    . created 3D front end for historical art site
    . wrote ruby on rails based geofeeder web application

Alexandria Digital Library: Research Staff (May 2001 to December 2004)
    University of California, Santa Barbara
    http://www.alexandria.ucsb.edu/
    . research in GIS and digital library systems
    . wrote c driver to enable library protocol in java middleware
    . wrote OpenGL based concept space graph visualization application 
    . wrote Visual Basic/ESRI ArcObjects client for p2p digital library
    . tracked and updated projects against multiple moving codebases
    . created working mockup of lecture presentation environment in VB
    . mocked up possible visualization-based library interfaces
    . adapted c++ terrain visualization program to digital library

Critical Path, Inc.: Programmer (January 1999 to July 2000)
    San Francisco, California (website no longer available)
    . developed web applications in object oriented perl environment
    . worked with internal customers to capture features of product
    . generated UML based object architecture
    . implemented and rolled out reporting database UI in five months
    . lost shirt when company became #2 in total post-boom shareholder
        lawsuits (after Enron)

Intervista Software: Systems Engineer (July 1997 to December 1998)
    San Francisco, California
    . supported pre- and post-sales efforts for family of 3D products
    . created demonstrations and communicated with customers
    . evangelized company's products in visualization community
    . designed XML based Visual Basic application
    . handled email tech support and beta program management
    . wrote whitepaper and entry for design contest

Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities: Research Staff
   (Fall 1994 to June 1996 part time, then to July 1997 full time)
   University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia
   http://www.iath.virginia.edu/
   . designed 3D interfaces for diverse humanities-related projects
   . created abstract, urban and hypertext experimental visualizations
   . set up project architectures and goals
   . purchased equipment, created initial web site, managed budget


>> Political & Community Organization Experience

Project Director: California VoterConnect (2006 - present)

Co-founder: Speak Out California (2003 - 2005)
  Santa Barbara, California

Media Chair: Santa Barbara County Democratic Central Committee
  (December 2002 - March 2005)

Field Director, SB Democratic Service Club
  (April 2003 - March 2005)

Volunteer Organizer, Santa Barbara for Dean
  (March 2003 to January 2004)

Board member, Santa Barbara Community Activist Network
  (December 2003 to March 2005)
  http://sbcan.org/

Numerous field campaign volunteer positions


>> Writing

Personal site, for recent writing and links to key published posts
    http://danancona.blogspot.com/

Guest Contributor at the Drum Major Institute Weblog
   http://www.dmiblog.com/archives/authors/85.html

Occasional author at Speak Out California, with a focus on
foundations of progressivism and progressive economics
   (website no longer available)

Creator of and writer for "Heeyah!", the first weblog for any
Democratic Party County Central Committee
   http://sbdems.blogspot.com/
   

>> Publications

"Accessing the Alexandria Digital Library from Geographic Information
Systems," with J.Frew, G.Janee, and D.Valentine.  Proceedings of the
Fourth ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Conference on Digital Libraries (JCDL 2004),
Tucson, AZ, June 7-11, 2004.

"Visual Explorations for the Alexandria Digital Earth Prototype," with
S. Fabrikant, M. Freeston and T. Smith.  Expanded and submitted as a
chapter in the Springer-Verlag _Lecture Notes in Computer Science
Series_.  Fall 2002.

"Use Scenarios in the Development of the Alexandria Digital Earth
Prototype," Gazan, R., Leazer, G. H., Borgman, C. L.,
Gilliland-Swetland, A. J., Smart, L., Ancona, D., et al. (2003).
Paper presented at the American Society for Information Science &
Technology Annual Meeting, Long Beach, CA.

"Visual Explorations for the Alexandria Digital Earth Prototype," with
T. Smith.  Presented at the Visual Interfaces to Digital Libraries
workshop at the 2002 Joint Conference on Digital Libraries.  Summer 2002.

"Using Perl and the LOD Node in VRML Environments," chapter in _VRML:
Special Edition_, published by Que.  Feb 1996.


>> Education

University of Virginia,  Charlottesville, Virginia
   B.S. Electrical Engineering, concentration in Applied Electrophysics.
   August 1993 to May 1996
   Thesis: "Invisible City: Mapping the World Wide Web in Three
       Dimensions."
   Final year GPA 3.6

Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, Virginia
   Preliminary work in Engineering, Science and Mechanics
   August 1991 to June 1993

Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology
   Alexandria, Virginia
   Class of 1991


>> Interests

music (DJing), photography, skiing, sailing, cooking
